[docs] Simplify installation (#9998)
expo/expo: docs/pages/get-started/installation.md

title: Installation
---

import TerminalBlock from '~/components/plugins/TerminalBlock';

Developing Expo apps locally requires a CLI, and a client app or web browser to run the project. You can also get started in the browser with [Snack](https://snack.expo.io/).

> ## 1. Local development tool: Expo CLI

Author: nice

> Expo CLI is a tool for developing apps and websites with React. Expo CLI also has a web-based GUI that pops up in your web browser when you start your project &mdash; you can use the GUI instead of the command line interface if you're not yet comfortable using a terminal or prefer GUIs, both have similar capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo CLI is a command line app that is the main interface between a developer and Expo tools. Expo CLI also has a web-based GUI that pops up in your web browser when you start your project &mdash; you can use the GUI instead of the command line interface if you're not yet comfortable using a terminal or prefer GUIs, both have similar capabilities.
```

### Requirements

- [Node.js 12](https://nodejs.org/en/) or greater

> - [Git](https://git-scm.com) for version control

Author: we should make this not a requirement. Expo should _just_ work regardless.

> - [Git](https://git-scm.com) for version control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Git](https://git-scm.com)
```

maybe?

> - [Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/docs/install#buildinstall) for MacOS users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/docs/install#buildinstall) for macOS users
```

apple spells it "macOS"

- **Git**: Additionally, you'll need Git to create new projects. [You can download Git from here](https://git-scm.com).
- [Node.js 12](https://nodejs.org/en/) or greater
- [Git](https://git-scm.com) for version control
- [Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/docs/install#buildinstall) for MacOS users

### Installing Expo CLI

We recommend installing Expo CLI globally, you can do this by running the following command:

```
npm install -g expo-cli
```

Verify that the installation was successful by running `expo whoami`. You're not logged in yet, so you will see "Not logged in". You can create an account by running `expo register` if you like, or if you have one already run `expo login`, but you also don't need an account to get started.
The best way to get started with universal React is by using `expo-cli`, alternatively you can use [`create-react-native-app`](https://github.com/expo/create-react-native-app) for more templates.

> > 😳 **Running into problems?** Try searching for your error message on the [forums](https://forums.expo.io) &mdash; you're probably not the first person to encounter your issue, and the forums are a great resource for these types of problems.

Author: Why would you have problems installing Expo, `npm i -g expo-cli` isn't broken. This phrasings seemingly alludes to the opposite.

Reviewer 2: I think it's not uncommon for windows users to run into permissions issues here, and we probably added this so people know they can search around for solutions rather than instantly thinking there's a bug with `expo-cli`

Reviewer 2: but this line is probably enough https://github.com/expo/expo/pull/9998/files#diff-fcf7ec29a70a4d795b2a087f22bc5ff5R25

> ## 2. Mobile app: Expo client for iOS and Android

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Expo client app for iOS and Android
```

> The fastest way to run your project is with the Expo client app on a real iOS or Android device. Develop and test your projects on a physical device with the [Expo client app](https://expo.io/tools). When a project is `start`ed with Expo CLI, it can be opened in the Expo client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a project is `start`ed with Expo CLI, it can be opened in the [Expo client app](https://expo.io/tools). This is, without a doubt, the fastest way to run and test your project on a real iOS or Android device.
```

When the Expo client is finished installing, open it up. If you created an account with `expo-cli` then you can sign in here on the "Profile" tab. This will make it easier for you to open projects in the client when you have them open in development &mdash; they will appear automatically in the "Projects" tab of the client app.

### Running the Expo client on your computer

The quickest way to get started is to run the Expo client on your physical iOS or Android device. If at some point you want to install a simulator or emulator to run the app directly on your computer you can find the [iOS simulator instructions here](../../workflow/ios-simulator/) and the [Android emulator instructions here](../../workflow/android-studio-emulator/). The iOS simulator only runs on macOS, Android emulators run on any major operating system.
Projects can also be run on a computer with the [iOS Simulator (MacOS only)](../../workflow/ios-simulator/) or [Android emulator (Any OS)](../../workflow/android-studio-emulator/).

<TerminalBlock cmd={['# Start and open the project on all devices', 'expo start --ios --android --web']} />

> > 🧐 Apple uses the word "simulator" for their iOS emulator and Google uses the word "emulator". This is one of your first glimpses at how each native platform expresses the same concept in its own unique way, even if the result is the same. Expo does our best to handle these differences for you and present you with a clean cross-platform API. Unfortunately we can't rename "simulator" to "emulator" or we would.

Author: I actually like this quote, but it is kinda distracting.

> > 🧐 Apple uses the word "simulator" for their iOS emulator and Google uses the word "emulator", these perform the same function conceptually and are different in name alone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 🧐 Apple uses the word "simulator" for their iOS emulator and Google uses the word "emulator" &mdash; [learn more about why these names are different](https://stackoverflow.com/a/4544605/659988), if you are curious.
```

> Now that `expo-cli`, and the Expo client are installed, [let's create a new app and write some code](../../get-started/create-a-new-app/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that `expo-cli` and the Expo client are installed, [let's create a new app and write some code](../../get-started/create-a-new-app/).
```

> Now that `expo-cli`, and the Expo client are installed, [let's create a new app and write some code](../../get-started/create-a-new-app/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that `expo-cli` and the Expo client are installed, [let's create a new app and write some code](../../get-started/create-a-new-app/).
```
